# Pins:

<ins>**GPIO (General Purpose Input Output):**</ins> connect devices to interact with the outside world like sensors and outputs like LEDs, relays, and motors.

<ins>**I²C (Inter-Integrated Circuit):**</ins>

  - **I²C SDA/SCL (general-purpose):** For you to connect sensors, modules, displays, etc.
  - **I²C ID EEPROM pins:** Reserved for the HAT’s ID EEPROM, so the Pi can auto-detect and configure add-on boards.

<ins>**SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface):**</ins>

  - **MISO (Master In, Slave Out):**
    - The line used to transfer data from the slave device to the master.
    - Example: If a master requests a sensor reading, the sensor (slave) sends the data back over MISO.

  - **MOSI (Master Out, Slave In):**\
    - The line used to transfer data from the master to the slave.
    - Example: If a master tells a display to show a number, it sends the command/data via MOSI.

  - **SCLK (Serial Clock):**\
    - The clock signal generated by the master that synchronizes data transmission.
    - Both master and slave shift data in/out at the edges of this clock signal.

  - **CE0 and CE1 (Chip Enable):**\
    - On many microcontrollers (like the Raspberry Pi), you’ll see CE0 and CE1 pins.
    - These are Chip Enable (or Chip Select) signals, generated by the SPI master.
    - They are active low → meaning the master pulls the line low (0) to select the slave device.
    - CE0 → Selects slave device #0, CE1 → Selects slave device #1. 

<ins>**PWM (Pulse Width Modulation):**</ins> are digital output pins that can rapidly switch between HIGH and LOW at a set frequency, with a variable duty cycle.

<ins>**PCM (Pulse Code Modulation):**</ins>
  - PCM_CLK = Clock for data.
  - PCM_FS (Frame Sync) = Selects left/right channel.
  - PCM_DIN = RX (audio input to pi).
  - PCM_DOUT = TX (audio output from pi). 

<ins>**UART (Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter):**</ins>\
  TX = Transmit (this pin is used by the device to send data out; data flows from this device → to the RX pin of the other device).\
  RX = Receive (This pin is used by the device to receive incoming data; data flows into this device from the TX of the other device).
